All right.
In our last video, we are able to make great progress in our study, a special relativity.
What exactly did we accomplish?
We are able to take the ideas that we discovered and proved previously, such as time dilation and length
contraction, and use that as a supporting evidence, the foundational support that allowed us to bridge
the gap between an infinite set of perceptions of the universe.
OK.
So in essence, what we did is we derive this nice map, this nice translational tool known as the evil
wrench transformation that allows us to easily and effortlessly translate the experiences of any individual
with any perspective of the universe, such that the events that arise in these different perspectives
can be related and talked about intelligently.
Now what we're going to do in this video is we're going to try and unleash the unlimited power and potential
that is inherent within this tool.
Now, previously we saw the power this tool offer in resolving dilemmas and problems, right?
We used it to effortlessly resolve Einstein's famous twin paradox, or rather not the twin powers.
The train paradox, right?
Using this map, we were able to reconcile discrepancies and events that different perspective perceptive
perceptions disagreed about, and we resolve that pretty easily.
We're going to do the same thing.
We're going to show you how this map really simplifies your analysis and really allows you to get a
nice core understanding of what's going on in special relativity.
What exactly are we going to do?
We're going to tackle the last a topic in special relativity, at least for this course in which we
try to figure out how different perceptions of velocity give rise to different phenomena.
OK.
So, for example, this happens in everyday situations, right?
If you're in a car and somebody is standing on the land and you drive by, then you have another car
in front of you.
If that car is going faster, let's say you're going 50 and somebody else is going 60 miles per hour
to you in the car.
It may look like the dude in front of you is going at a speed of 10 miles per hour, but the individual
on the ground what he sees as the actual speed 60 miles per hour.
OK, so the Galilean transformation, the classical interpretation had this nice map for actually figuring
out what that is and relating those experiences.
This is known as the Galilean transformation, but we visited the same problem previously in the beginning
of the course.
Do you recall in the beginning of the course, I use this situation, this scenario, to spell out the
problems associated with the classical approach.
In essence, we worked with Terence to fill up in the experiment that's outlined here.
And what happened was Terence.
He was in a ship that was speeding to the right in the positive direction at a speed of zero point nine,
five times the speed of light, see?
And he shot a laser beam that shot, you know, photons and particles that went, obviously, as we
know from the second postulate, a special relativity, the speed of light, see?
Now, according to the Galilean transformation Philip, what he saw previously is he said, Oh, I've
got this relation in classical mechanics.
It says that my velocity, my perceived interpretation of the velocity p is just Terrence's perceive
velocity of prime, plus the relative velocity point, I see.
So if you take all those details together, that would lead fill up to say that, hey, to me, that
light is going to travel at a speed of 1.9 five times C, which obviously is wrong because in essence,
what he's going to see is and what we found in that video is he's going to see that this light travels
at well, it's not surprising the speed of light, right?
So what went wrong with this and how can we use this map to resolve that problem?
That's what we're going to do in this video, but you should be able to tell me what exactly went wrong
with this.
And the problem is, as you tell right here, this failed to account for the second postulate special
relativity, right?
When we derive the Galilean transformation, it was just a regular kinematic interpretation, and they
did not.
Mold the equations, they do not mold their interpretation, so they enforced the second postulate a
special relativity.
And as we know now, when you do that, it gives rise to special phenomena such as time dilation and
length contraction.
And with the Galilean transformation, we just assumed that the time T is equal to T prime that that
there was no difference between time.
That time flows at a constant rate, regardless of your reference frame, your perspective, your perception
of the universe.
OK, so that was fundamentally wrong.
That was flawed.
And when you observe things, close the speed of light.
That gets pushed out straight into the equation, and it starts to diverge away from what it actually
is, what actually happens in the universe, and that's why this guy was wrong.
Now to resolve this, what we can do, it's pretty straightforward.
And this is why I'm saying that it's really going to unleash the power that's inherent in the lunch
transformation.
All you have to do is take a look at the velocities and apply our map, right?
We can easily relate lengths.
We can easily relate times.
Let's do that right now.
OK, so we're going to revolve your lips and has this problem.
Fill up is freaking out.
Is, you know, he's pretty happy because he's shooting a laser beam.
And that's frickin awesome.
OK, so we put a line here to separate our Lorentz transformation and the work we're going to do.
What we can do is we could take a look at the definition of laxity, and that's going to be our blueprint.
That's going to be what drives us forward in this analysis.
So what we know is that the velocity in any reference frame, regardless of how you perceive it is your
velocity is no different.
Then you know, it's a derivative, right?
Basic physics one on one B, this is just d x d, or if you want to make this more complete in every
direction, you can use a position Vector R, which includes Dimensions X, Y and Z and the Cartesian
reference frame.
We say this velocity is nothing more than this, and this is just going to be valid where D.R. is the
distance, the change in distance between two points.
Right.
This is between.
Or rather, we can use an equal sign.
TR is no more than an hour to minus R one.
Right.
It's the difference between an event at point two and an event at zero point one.
Take the difference of their distance that gives you the change in your life.
Right.
So this is nothing more than a change in length of the change in time.
But what's interesting is I make some board space here.
We can relate V and V Prime pretty easily because, well, we can take these guys right here.
What's really cool is the Lorenz transformation is linear.
I'm going to see that again.
The Lorenz transformation is linear, right?
So what we find is that if you have an operator on one of these guys is going to get carried through.
So you know what, d x prime right?
This this is a constant.
It's linear, you know, if you take the derivative.
You're there to get Delta X Prize is equal to Ghana.
Delta X minus B Relative D.
That's because it's linear, right?
Linearity is something that occurs when you only have a constant multiply by your variable.
So we're going to take advantage of that right now to actually resolve this problem pretty quickly.
And we're going to let the math do this for us.
OK, so we could have this guy and we can relate these guys by saying, Oh, wait a second, the prime
is nothing more then.
Well, that's d.r prime.
The key problem and we're going to constrain what we look at for now on one dimension.
So we're going to assume that we have a situation where terrorism fill up are speeding along in one
direction, and we're going to take a look at Delta ex-Prime over that.
Well, what is Delta Prime?
Normally we would use this guy here, and this gave us problems because it didn't account for the second
possible special relativity.
The speed of light is always constant, but we have that embedded in this nice, powerful map that allows
the translate experiences, right?
So we don't have to think about it.
We just need a plug and chug in essence.
So what we could do is we can determine both of these parameters.
All we have to do is we just say, OK, the prime is, Oh, it's linear.
We write down this baby.
We get a delta account.
The whole wrench factor right there.
That's literally just Delta X minus B relative d c simple baby.
We can do the same thing with the prime data.
Manage linearity, right?
And if this does not sit well with you, you can literally just say yes.
Try it, try it and you can.
You can prove linearity yourself.
You can say yes.
Prime is no different than Oh, that's x to prime minus x one prime.
And you're going to find that if you take X to prime and subtract x one prime, you can group these
guys put that guy in.
You get the same exact result.
OK.
I'm sort of jumping ahead a bit, assuming you guys have done basic algebra and you understand this
interpretation.
But if you don't make sure you go through that exercise, convince yourself and be confident in the
math that your confidence and your mathematical ability puts the results forward and guide what you're
doing.
So this becomes nothing more than the T minus B relative over C squared times.
D Yes.
All right.
So we got these guys and literally all we need to do is just plug them into this relationship.
It was that easy, and we can resolve this paradox without any headaches, any kind of problems.
Let's do that right now.
OK.
So in the X direction v x prime just becomes nothing more than the X Prime or DC Prime.
And what we do is we just slap these guys straight on.
We get a gamma a d x minus the relative DC.
We divide by the prime.
Gamma times, the T minus the relative over C squared times the X and what we do is we can cancel all
these gamma factors.
And what we're going to say is we're going to divide by ADT on the top and bottom.
So in essence, we're just multiplying by one.
We take this guy multiply one over DC, over one over DC.
Bam, we distribute this guy.
What ends up equaling is, well, DC's over DC.
Or I'm going to slow down.
I'm going to write this off for you guys so you can see it.
So we get DST.
Minus the relative times, dirty over, Dirty Old West is one and only divide by D over T minus the
relative overseas squared times.
The Act's over 80 now, if you get rid of this erroneous approach with the galley and transformation
because it's useless, it gave us the wrong results and we make room for the new result, which is what
we want the correct result.
We end up with nothing more than, Oh, let's just V.X, these guys cancel out just one.
This guy cancels out just to be one.
You get a right there.
And what you end up with is the following the X minus the relative.
Divided by one minus the relative, the overseas squared times Vieques and is the point where I check
my notes to make sure we did the math correctly and we did at this point, we say That's awesome, we
have achieved victory.
That is the result we want and this is known as the relativistic velocity.
Audition, OK.
So what we see is pretty cool.
We see that.
Well, using this nap, we extended it a bit.
Now we have a map to relate velocities.
We can further translate experiences.
This extends the power and you can see there is unlimited untapped potential instilled in this derivation
that we put together.
OK, so at this point, we say, OK, we got the result in the X direction.
Let's call it a day.
No, we are not going to do that.
Why?
Well, as we found previously, relativistic effects have mostly been constrained to the axis of motion.
What am I talking about there?
If we have something traveling in the extraction close to the speed of light, we find that it's constrained
in that same x direction in the x axis.
And it also affects what I'm going to refer to as like a fourth dimension the time where I'm related
to space time.
So usually we would have the length contract and then the X direction and Y and Z would not be affected,
right?
That seemed to be the general convection.
But that does not necessarily dictate that it always will be constrained to the axis of motion.
So it's a worthwhile exercise to go through this and see what happens.
And perhaps v y ABC is by.
It's going to be v why is the Z Prime is going to be busy?
We don't necessarily know, and that's not assume that right?
Remember how tears of Philip fill their experiment.
They failed it because they tried to prescribe what would happen upon the universe, as opposed to taking
a step back, looking, observing, taking it in and then derived the results.
Let's see what nature dictates.
Let's see what the math pops up for us.
OK, so if we take v y prime o v y prime, we just do the same exact exercise.
This is nothing more than taking up d y prime.
Or Team Prime?
And what I want you to do is I want you to look at this relationship and you should tell me whether
it's going to have a very odd result, whether it's going to be different than what we see here, right?
We're not going to have by prime equal to be why right?
Can you see that?
If not, let's see.
Well, we know that there's no change in life because of the constraints of the x axis.
So DUI prime is nothing more than, you know, that's DUI.
Nothing really changed here.
OK.
But we know that time dilates right.
So deep prime, it's going to change.
But we have that spell out for us right here so we can make way.
So we see it is not going to be constrained to the x axis these relativistic effects.
Let's see what they are in the U, Y and z axis.
So all we have to do is we literally come here.
We use our map right up here.
DUI prime equals DUI.
We write that baby right up there and we divide by this guy right here.
That's nothing more than our, you know, we get our gamma factor.
Right in there and then we get this guy right up here.
Minus the relative or a C squared.
And that is multiplied by X the X.
All right, so the name of the game is we do the same exact thing we did up here for Vice Prime.
What we're going to do is we're going to multiply by 130 over a 180.
And I'm not going to write it out like it did here, because you can see you're going to get DUI disease
or, oh, what do we get?
We get?
We get the wine.
Is equal to you.
Here we get a gamma ray.
He gives you a one.
And then we subtract the relative overseas squared times the X.
Right.
OK, so that's the prime.
Bam, OK.
And we could do the same exercise with fizzy.
I'm going to skip that because it should be evident what's going to happen, right?
We get it easy prime up here over prime and in essence, all it happens is instead of a DUI, you get
a DC up here, so you're going to get a visa on the top.
On the bottom is unchanged and you get the same exact relation on the bottom.
We can write this off by a metaphor.
So this just becomes.
Visit.
Over Gamma.
One minus the relative.
Over C squared.
On the X.
Boom.
The end result.
So we find that relativistic effects are not constrained to the axis of motion, which is a little weird
and makes our calculations a bit more complicated, but we have this nice map which gives us additional
analytical power on top of the Lorentz transformation.
What we want to do now to wrap up this portion of the video is make some board space.
And make note that
for the relativistic lost the edition, just like we did up here.
For the civil rights transformation that these are, in essence, interchangeable maps, you can go
either way.
Yes, you can do the same thing down here for these guys.
These last edition formulas, in order to get, oh, I forgot a pry up there in order to get a relationship
or V.X for basically the terms and Philip's reference frame the stationary record's frame without the
prime.
Right?
All you need to do is switch out the signs of the V relative, switch the signs and let the prime.
What am I talking about here?
Let's get out of it.
Let's look at the Lorentz transformation we see here.
All we needed to do is we flip this guide here and these guys get primed and then you just change this,
right?
See, it's from one to two exploded over here, and then we change the sign and then ban same exact
convention for Prime.
You know, this guy gets thrown over here and here, that gesture to a positive bam.
Obviously, you want to work through this once before you do this, but the special relativity, this
is a convention that will be mentioned in many textbooks across up again and again, and the same exact
thing applies the the.
So yeah, you could do this.
You could just push through that guy over on the right side.
Change that to a positive sign.
You're in good shape.
You got the inverse of lost ED. formula.
Now, the last thing I want to do is take a look at the following.
So.
If this this relationship was true, then it should apply a very high velocities.
But at the same time, just as we saw at the Lawrence transformation, it should converge upon the classical
result.
Otherwise, there would be something wrong with this guy.
So let's show that in the way in which we share that if we take the limit as V is much less than C,
or let's see, we're going to stay the limit as V is much less than C.
And that means we over see is much less than one.
So we do that and I pop up my notes.
What happens is.
We know are the rent factor, the Ghana.
Approximately one, because again, that's one over square root.
Mine is B or C, the sky squared, the yes, that is right.
So when this guy is small, just becomes one because we ever see a small one might assume because nothing
more than one and then one by one is one.
OK, so.
We get this relationship and what happens to Vieques, Vieques, is because nothing more than a promise
equal to Vieques, minus the relative.
Over one minus the relative or a C squared times the X.
Well, all these parameters, the velocities are much less than C and supplies for, you know, the
relative acts, et cetera.
Right.
We're assuming we're going to operate in Newtonian fashion.
OK, so this guy is essentially zero because the relative is much smaller than C squared.
And it doesn't matter if you multiply by B X because that's small, too.
So this guy is small relative to this guy.
And what you end up with is not surprisingly, the classical result.
Exactly what we wanted, right?
This is the same relationship that we observed in getting the video down here, when Fill-Up screwed
up everything and thought that this was going to travel them faster than the speed of light, that's
an oxymoron that doesn't even make any sense.
It's contradicted.
Very that's not true.
So yes, that jisoo of our intuition.
That's good.
The next thing we want to check is the why.
How does that behave?
How does it behave?
So if we take the why and do the same exact trick me why?
And let me back up a bit.
The gamma is gone here because actually there is no gamma.
Sorry about that.
There was a gamut up here, but don't worry about that.
So and that's what we have is.
VI Prime is equal to the one over gamaa times, one minus the relative or C squared times the X, and
we know that this guy is very small compared to one.
So this becomes zero.
This guy is approximately equal to one.
And what we find is Bam.
No, no relativistic effects.
We find out it doesn't change if it's going up, regardless of your mention, it's going to go up at
the same rate.
That is the last school result.
We would have gotten the same exact thing for Visa also, because this becomes one.
This guy is essentially zero B.C. prime equals visa ban.
It converges upon the classical result at a low velocity.
This must be the correct result.
OK, so what have we done in this video?
We really want to tap the magic, the inherent power that's instilled in the Lorentz transformation
right when we run into problems, dilemmas such as that observed with Phillip and Terence.
We can hearken back to this nice map, this nice translational tool, and it can resolve those paradoxes
or discrepancies very easily and effortlessly, and in doing so, we came up with a new map, a map
that can allow us to relate the losses, as seen by different perspectives and the experiences that
arise in those reference frames can be related.
They can talk about it intelligently.
We have a universal conception of the universe.
Next, what we're going to do is we're going to run through a quick example to show you how not only
this resolves the paradox with parents and fill up, and also that it conforms to the second possible
special relativity.
Well, we'll take a look at another interesting example to demonstrate the power of this and get you
used to actually doing computations with the Velocity Edition formulas.
Stay tuned.